Evaluation of Ebay
SEO Evaluation
Cq – Quality: Pages are well written with no spelling errors. Content is up to date, main page advertises the newest model of smart phones, laptops, and seasonal clothing.
Cr – Research: Since ebay is such a large name, it is not a website people go to by accident. If someone did end up on ebay by accident it would likely be due to using a keyword like “for sale”. If you google smart phone for sale, ebay is one of the first options that pop up.
Am – Mobile: Ebay works well on mobile devices as well as having their own iOS and android app.
As – The site loads very quickly despite having pictures/moving pictures.
Au – URLS: The URLs on ebay do contain keywords to the page topics. For example, if you wanted to look at the fashion category the URL is: https://www.ebay.ca/rpp/fashion-main
Ah – HTTPS: Ebay uses HTTPS to provide secure connection for visitors.
Ht – Titles: HTML title tags do contain keywords relevant to page topics. For example, an HTML tag “Unlocked smart phones” is on the page for used smart phones.
The Business Model Canvas
Key Partners: Stubhub, Classified websites, Paypal,
Key Suppliers: Personal sellers and businesses
Ebay acquires property, offices, and intellectual property from partners.
Partners help supply merchandise, payment methods, setting up offices in new cities.

Business Canvas Model

Key Activities:  Customer support, revenue sales, paypal, provide an online market with a large userbase.
Distribution Channels:  Ebay has a distribution center where sellers can drop send items for ebay to stock and ship. Sellers can also opt to send their own mail.
Customer Relationships: Ebay provides its own customer support on its website.
Revenue Streams: Two separate streams. Net transaction revenue which is taken from listing fees and payment processing. Marketing Services is revenue from the sale of advertisements. 

Key Resources: Licenses, servers, brand, domain name, apps. Distribution channels and customer relations highlighted above.

Value Propositions: What value do we deliver? Convenience, cheap prices, an easily accessible market with infinite options.
Problems that are solved: People can purchase almost anything without having the leave their house. Customers can access to things they didn’t even know they needed and it will be delivered straight to their doors.

Customer Relationships
Ebay expects to establish a long lasting relationship with all customers and provide the best support when an item doesn’t show up when it was promised or in the exact condition. Ebay has a loyalty rewards program and offers coupons and discounts. The benefits of having returning customers far outweighs the cost of providing good customer service and a loyalty program.

Channels
Customer segments are reached through shipping. Channels are integrated into the website. Customers have the option to pay extra for faster shipping.

Customer Segments
Ebay creates value for people who may not have access to transportation, for people who don’t know where to buy specific products, and for people looking for cheap alternatives to store bought brands. The most important customers are large scale business sellers who will generate large amounts of commission fees for ebay.

Cost Structure
The most important costs are paying for platform maintenance and the servers to run the ebay website 24/7 with no downtime. Ebay has to spend money on product development, making partnerships with other companies, and paying employees.

Revenue Streams
Ebay offers a platform for buyers and seller. Value comes from sellers selling items hard to find items or selling items much less expensive than normally found on brand name websites or stores. Ebay offers many different payment gateways, the most popular and easily accessible is paypal. Customers feel safer using paypal rather than linking their credit card online. Ebay’s largest revenue stream is from listing fees.

What runs ebay?
1.	Google AdSense – This is an advertising service for website publishers to display specific texts in certain places, video, or image advertisements. Money is earned every time the advertisement is clicked.
2.	jQuery 1.11.1 – This is a javascript library allowing html document manipulation, event handling, animation, and Ajax simpler and easy to use.
3.	Google Tag Manager – A tool that allows marketers to add and update website tags for conversion tracking, site analytics, remarketing in just few clicks.
